---
layout: post
title: "The Clean Promise of 2013"
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

It's been quite some time since my "last post":http://al3x.net/2012/11/11/alone-together-again.html, which was itself a wrapper around something I'd written in late August, 2012. A lot can happen in half a year.

After the events described in that post, I spent the second half of 2012 wandering. Some of that time was spent with friends and family, but for the most part I was on my own. I was in Iceland, Berlin, New York, St Louis, London, DC, Seattle, Boulder, Chicago, Boston, down and up the waters of the Atlantic. I slept in tatty artist lofts, high-rise condo apartments, hotels dowdy and chic, minuscule bare-bones studios, in the homes and on the fold-out beds of friends, in a nearly-abandoned row house, and even rolling with the waves in a cabin on a cruise ship. A night here, several weeks there, never a home to return to.

At every stop: museums, architecture, oddball excursions, natural and urban wonders. Many meals alone, peering over reading to watch passersby and take in conversations I couldn't translate. I spent some much-cherished time as a resident at "Hacker School":https://www.hackerschool.com/, coding with, teaching, and learning from programmers of all ages, backgrounds, and experience levels. In every city I met with entrepreneurs and engineers. I met with them to listen, to brainstorm, to connect, to be convinced or dissuaded, to learn, and to help uncover what I might do next.

Days after the pain and loss of 2012 finally gave way to the clean promise of 2013, I found myself apartment-hunting in the beachside community of Venice, part of the diverse and deliciously surreal sprawl that is Los Angeles. Without work to pick a place for me, a big city with nice weather seemed as good a reason as any to unpack for a while. Then, a day after I'd hung my last picture in my new rental, I got on the phone with "Julien Smith":http://juliensmith.com/ at the behest of my friend "Evan Prodromou":http://evan.prodromou.name/.

Julien has an idea. That idea's name is now "Breather":http://www.breather.com/. When Julien described Breather to me, my reaction was one of visceral and unrestrained enthusiasm. When we got off the phone, I paced around my new apartment. "Fuck," I said, several times to myself and once or twice to a half-dozing cat. "Fuck. This is what I should be doing."

I am now co-founder and CTO of Breather. I debated myself many times on taking up that role again, having spent much of the past few months thinking that I'd go back to a straight-ahead engineering position in a more established company. On further reflection, I've come to accept that early-stage companies are now in my blood. When I feel that a fledgling idea must be brought into the world, it's simply a matter of how I can best help to make that happen. In Breather's case, it's by being CTO, and I feel utterly privileged to be joining Julien and our accomplished Creative Director, Caterina Rizzi, in that capacity.

In time, when we feel we can best introduce Breather to you, we will. It's a business that lends itself particularly well to being based in New York City, so despite having just gotten settled in LA, I'm packing up once more and relocating to Manhattan by mid-March. I greatly enjoyed my brief time in LA, but the sunshine and California cool seems fairly traded for the dense and unceasing network of people and experiences that is NYC.

I look forward to sharing Breather with you as we bring it to life. If you're looking for a new challenge – particularly but by no means exclusively in the areas of security, operations, and mobile engineering – get in touch with me: <a href="mailto:alex@breather.com">alex@breather.com</a>.